---
title: "Mastering PostgreSQL"
subtitle: "Learn to replace thousands of lines of code with one SQL query"
created: !!timestamp '2017-11-07 11:54:00'
image: /media/images/blog/2017/elephant.jpg
tags:
    - PostgreSQL
    - Books
---

{% block excerpt %}
{% mark excerpt %}

A few months ago, my friend [Dimitri Fontaine](http://tapoueh.org) and I discussed writing books
and sharing our knowledge. If you do not know Dimitri yet, he is an old-time
PostgreSQL Major Contributor – meaning he writes code for the PostgreSQL
software itself!

{% endmark %}
{% endblock %}

I interviewed Dimitri a few years ago in [The Hacker's Guide to
Python](https://thehackerguidetopython.com), where he shared his insight about
writing proper Python application code with relational database management
system.

All of this gave Dimitri the idea of writing its own book about PostgreSQL. And
he released his book this week! If like me, you can't wait to read it, just
click on the button below and grab a package with a **15% discount**.

<p class="text-center">
  <a href="#packages" class="btn btn-default white">Buy the book</a></span>
</p>

To celebrate the event, I went ahead and decided to ask him a few questions.

<img src="/media/images/blog/2017/dim-rounded.png"
    class="illustration pull-right"
    style="max-width: 25%;">

#### Hey Dimitri! So what made you start writing this book in the first place?

*Dimitri*: As a PostgreSQL consultant, I've met with many developers for whom
SQL just didn't click. They then tend to consider SQL much as they would
consider HTML: some string you need to build dynamically then send over to an
external part of the system, either the browser or the database server.

As soon as you start on this path, SQL is more and more of a problem in your
daily life and developer workflow. It doesn't integrate well with the usual
testing and continuous integration tools, not to mention it's hard to review
(as in code review) and hard to maintain.

> At the end of the day, when using a relational database system, you have to
know your SQL.

As a developer, you need to be fluent in SQL and master window functions,
common table expressions, recursive queries, time zone handling and advanced
string and regexp processing functions, transaction behaviors and also how to
build a query result set in JSON. And so much more.

For most developers, it's a daunting task. Just too much to learn when they
have so many other things to take care of. So many lines of code to write to
implement that new product idea. Well, as Dijkstra put it, lines of code are
“spent” on writing a new feature. When you master SQL, you spend much less of
those lines of code.

So I wrote **Mastering PostgreSQL in Application Development** to teach SQL to
developers. Focusing on real use cases and authentic data set, so that it's
easier to grasp all those advanced features. The book also addresses the
tooling you need to integrate SQL as another programming language with a decent
worfklow, from code review to unit testing, including regression testing and
production debugging.

#### Who should read this book? What are the prerequisites to get the most of it?

*Dimitri*: The pre-requisites are quite easy to reach.

> If you ever deployed an application that embeds SQL queries and talks to a
database server, you're in the target audience, the book is for you.

If you've never used PostgreSQL before, reading **Mastering PostgreSQL in
Application Development** may convince you to have a look at that awesome piece
of technology. My bet is on you switching to PostgreSQL and finding it much
better at helping you in your daily work and challenges.

Even if you've been using MySQL all your life, you will learn about standard
SQL features and how to use them in a way that applies to more than just
PostgreSQL, so the book is going to help you in your daily life.

#### What's your next adventure now that this book is out?

*Dimitri*: There are more things that I want to do that a lifetime allows, and
I am in the process of choosing what is going to be my next adventure. I feel
so lucky to be able to have that problem to solve… and it still isn't the
easiest one for me.

What I can tell you is that I have much more PostgreSQL knowledge to share
after having been using, promoting, and contributing to this database server
technology for about 20 years now. So if that first book sells well, I will get
back to filling empty pages and deliver more contents to help developers making
the best of SQL, to help developers on their road to Mastering PostgreSQL!

#### Thanks Dimitri!

I've just read the book and found it fantastic. It contains tons of tips on how
to use PostgreSQL correctly, and I discovered SQL features I had no clue about.
The book uses real data that you can fetch and play with. It provides the data
and a Docker container with everything included so you can edit the query
yourself and try it out. There is no better way to learn things than to play
with the examples that are included, in just a few clicks!

The book also features a few interviews with SQL experts from the PostgreSQL
community and from the development community, which gives great insight about
how to use the software.

<span id="packages"><span>

Dimitri is offering **15% off for my readers** during the next 48 hours for any
of the edition of the book. Just use the **PYTHON-LOVES-POSTGRESQL** coupon
code in any of the following package:

<br>
<div class="container products inforow">
  <div class="product clearfix">
    <div class="col-sm-3">
      <a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/szoX">
        <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/MasteringPostgreSQLinAppDev-Cover.png"
             alt="Mastering PostgreSQL – Enterprise Edition">
      </a>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-9 description">
      <h3><a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/szoX"></a>Mastering PostgreSQL – Enterprise Edition</h3>
      <span class="price">
        <span class="amount"><strike>$179</strike> <strong>$152</strong>
          <br><small> with coupon code
            <strong>PYTHON-LOVES-POSTGRESQL</strong></small></span>
      </span>
      <br>
      <p>
        The Enterprise Edition includes:
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/ebook_reader.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            The book in PDF, EPUB and MOBI formats.
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/icon_mic.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            Interviews from industry veterans who began building web
            application in the previous century. They’ve been there and have
            opinions to share about how to approach SQL.
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/icon_database.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            The PostgreSQL database dump that you need to run the queries
            against, with a script to restore it easily. The database includes
            all the 12 datasets used in the book.
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/docker-logo.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            A Docker container image of an already loaded PostgreSQL database
            with the whole 12 datasets in 56 tables, and the 265 SQL queries
            each in their own .sql file and a Web-based application for
            easily running and editing the SQL queries.
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/certificate.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            Licence for you to share the book and the Docker set-up with up
            to 50 people, including you. That's everything you need for your
            whole team to master SQL!
          </div>
        </div>
        <span style="float: right;"><a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/szoX" class="btn btn-default white">Buy the Enterprise Edition</a></span>
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<hr>

<div class="container products inforow">
  <div class="product clearfix">
    <div class="col-sm-3">
      <a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/koprL">
        <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/MasteringPostgreSQLinAppDev-Cover.png"
             alt="Mastering PostgreSQL – Full Edition">
      </a>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-9 description">
      <h3><a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/koprL"></a>Mastering PostgreSQL – Full Edition</h3>
      <span class="price">
        <span class="amount"><strike>$89</strike> <strong>$75</strong>
          <br><small> with coupon code <strong>PYTHON-LOVES-POSTGRESQL</strong></small></span>
      </span>
      <br>
      <p>
        The Full Edition includes:
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/ebook_reader.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            The book in PDF, EPUB and MOBI formats.
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/icon_mic.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            Interviews from industry veterans who began building web
            application in the previous century. They’ve been there and have
            opinions to share about how to approach SQL.
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/icon_database.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            The PostgreSQL database dump that you need to run the queries
            against, with a script to restore it easily. The database includes
            all the 12 datasets used in the book.
          </div>
        </div>
        <span style="float: right;"><a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/koprL" class="btn btn-default white">Buy the Full Edition</a></span>
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

<hr>

<div class="container products inforow">
  <div class="product clearfix">
    <div class="col-sm-3">
      <a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/WhNVv">
        <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/MasteringPostgreSQLinAppDev-Cover.png"
             alt="Mastering PostgreSQL">
      </a>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-9 description">
      <h3><a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/WhNVv"></a>Mastering PostgreSQL</h3>
      <span class="price">
        <span class="amount"><strike>$39</strike> <strong>$33</strong>
          <br><small> with coupon code <strong>PYTHON-LOVES-POSTGRESQL</strong></small></span>
      </span>
      <br>
      <p>
        The Standard Edition includes:
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/ebook_reader.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            The book in PDF, EPUB and MOBI formats.
          </div>
        </div>
        <div class="row" style="margin: 15px;">
          <div class="col-sm-1">
            <img src="/media/images/blog/2017/icon_mic.png">
          </div>
          <div class="col-sm-11">
            Interviews from industry veterans who began building web
            application in the previous century. They’ve been there and have
            opinions to share about how to approach SQL.
          </div>
        </div>
        <span style="float: right;"><a href="https://gumroad.com/a/623817843/WhNVv" class="btn btn-default white">Buy the book</a></span>
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

<hr>

If you have any question, feel free to reach [Dimitri](mailto:dim@tapoueh.org) directly and he will
be happy to reply. Or write in the comment section below!

And don't worry: if the book is not what you expect it to be and has no value
to you, then just say so and Dimitri will refund you, no questions asked.


{# Local Variables: #}
{# mode: markdown #}
{# End: #}
